[Music]
we already know that the world is made
of things things like cats and macaroni
salad and macaroni salad is made of
things like mayo and mustard and celery
which are all made of molecules as we'll
see these molecules are made of the same
stuff just mixed together in different
ways let's go back to our macaroni salad
we've already unmixed things physically
as much as we can
now we'll go further and unmix things
chemically by breaking some bonds many
larger complex molecules are just a
bunch of smaller molecules bonded
together like building blocks here again
macaroni salad provides a nice example
if you look at the pasta you'll notice
it's made of a lot of this stuff starch
which is this molecule otherwise known
as amylose turns out if you break some
bonds amylose is made up of smaller
molecules of glucose a simple sugar if
you take a bunch of these same glucose
molecules and rearrange them in a
different way
you get cellulose which is what plants
are made of so while this piece of pasta
made of amylose and this wooden spoon
made of cellulose look vastly different
they're both essentially made of the
same molecules just stuck together
differently this type of breaking apart
and recombining is what goes on when you
digest food the complex proteins found
in the foods we eat like carrots and
eggs can't be used by our bodies because
we are not carrots or chickens what we
can use are the smaller molecules that
make up these proteins the amino acids
during digestion our bodies break these
proteins up into their amino acids so
they can be rearranged and put back
together to make human proteins but
let's keep breaking bonds all molecules
are just made up of atoms bonded
together if some molecules are building
blocks atoms are the building blocks of
the building blocks and you'll notice
that with the molecules from macaroni
salad the same six types of atoms keep
showing up carbon hydrogen oxygen
nitrogen phosphorus and sulfur or
chomps there's a few others but the big
six is what macaroni salad is made of if
we went a step further we could use
these same atoms recombine them and make
other stuff like gasoline or sulfuric
acid methane and nylon it's all made
from the same elements that make up
macaroni salad so to recap everything is
made of atoms
they are the stuff that things are made
of atoms are grouped together in
different ways to form molecules these
molecules are constantly being combined
broken apart and recombined
they get thrown into mixtures separated
remixed over and over and over again the
stuff that things are made of is always
in flux it's always changing macaroni
salad is only macaroni salad for a short
time you eat it some of it becomes part
of you the rest eventually goes into the
ocean and gets eaten by other animals
that die and after millions of years
they turn into oil which is where
gasoline comes from and that's why
gasoline and macaroni salad are not that
different they're both made of the same
stuff just one taste better
[Music]